We'll come back and this is going to be a really super exciting lesson because we're going to create
some interaction with javascript.
I've got my browser open here too.
Indexed on h t m-L.
So I've got that one open here on the right hand side.
And I've got brackets my script editor here on the left hand side.
So what I want it to do is create interaction using javascript.
So first of all let's start by creating a variable and this is also going to illustrate how useful variables
can be containing information.
So we're going to say what is your name.
So basically we want to ask a question that we want to get a response for.
So this is just a basic question.
It can be any string value that you want and notice that it's contained within a string.
And we're just asking that string value.
So the quotes around it.
And now if I go out to my console and I'm going to actually open up my console and I'm going to open
it up at the bottom because I want to keep it all within that same page for now.
So let's refresh this page.
And now when I type question I can see that I've got access to the information contained within the
variable.
So the next thing that I want to do is actually want to ask for a prompt.
So let's show you what prompt does.
So this is similar to what I said what those other methods did.
When we looked at alert and of there's another builtin method that's ready to go and then javascript
and it's got a set of code that's going to execute behind the scenes so it knows what to do when you
type in prompt and I'm using the variable question and I'm dropping it in to prompt.
So see what happens.
So when I press prompt we get a pop up type window here plopping up but we've also got that question
there so this is actually the value that's coming from.
The question variable that I ventured into prompt and this is the format of prompt.
When you add in a string value over here it places it here at the top.
And then we've got an input field here where we can input some information so I can type in and we see
that we get a return value.
So much like what we saw earlier where we're looking at the data types.
When we were typing in different string values we get those return values we saw.
We can also add in something like my name and we can assign a string value to it.
So we could do it like this.
And now when we typed in my name we get that return value.
So this we can take one step further because we see what prompt is actually returning back is the result
here of that prompt pop up box.
So it's returning back into the value just like what we saw over here where we call back to my name
we get the value back.
We get the same thing here with question so we can use that within a variable and we can store this
information essentially capturing that information capturing that user's response.
So let's try that within our editor.
We're going to do my name and we're going to equal it.
So that's not going to be of value.
So this is going to be a dynamic value that we're going to be picking up and we're going to use the
prompt method.
So basically this displays that pop up message box and we could just as easily take our string value
here and we could enter it in prompt but that would make it don't that wouldn't make it dynamic.
And the objective of javascript is that we want to write nice clean code that's easy to read and we
try to separate out all as much as possible when we write code.
So over here we have a distinct function here or distinct value here that we're setting a question and
then the next one we're using prompt and we're utilizing that question from that first variable.
So let's save this.
And let me show you how this works.
So now when I get asked for my name I can type in my name.
And now when I call back to him my name variable I've got a value that's being held in there and I can
use this over and over and over again as many times as I want.
So lastly let's actually do one more thing here that I didn't show you earlier but I also want to introduce
in this lesson how you can concatenate together various string values.
If we had a second part to that question and we had something like.
Question ans let's just do question 1 and Question 2.
So we want to keep the your name and so we're going to add in in the second part of the string.
So we wanted to maybe have our string change and we want to make something different happen within the
strings so in case we want to change it from your name to your age or something like that.
We can just as easily change that over here.
So this is the latter part of the question and we've got this question mark so we know that every question
is going to have a question mark and maybe we can include your over here as well.
And we're just keep the page down here at the bottom.
So lastly how do you combine them together.
And again we can turn to variables and variables are the answer to this as well where we can equal questions
so just as we did with the prompt we can use the returned response.
So we certainly got a return and response.
So we've got a return response for question 1 return response for question 2.
The first one is what is your what the space at the end and loss and the question 2 is age.
So we can just as easily concatenate them together.
So we use the plus side you're not adding to them together you're concatenating two string values together.
And then lastly let's add in that question mark so I can create another string here at the end and when
I go back and if I refresh it that we've got that full question there concatenated together and this
is one of the ways we can begin to use different variable values and utilize them within our code by
simply setting another variable using the initial variable values so that we know within our code we
don't necessarily need to be.
Maybe we only want to change this one value of question 2 and we can change it back to name or.
What is your favorite color or something like that.
We've got a lot of flexibility here in the second part of the question and if we had the ability to
change it dynamically we could do even more where we could have something like one of the prompts
would be
and maybe you and here we're going to ask so Question So we're going to essentially have two prompts
the first one is going to ask us what question we want to ask.
What is your so either age or what age or name as an example.
And then over here we're going to bring it all together and then we're going to ask another prompt with
a question.
And then lastly we're going to place we're going to place an alert here.
So let's try this out first.
So refresh it.
So what type of extension do we want to add to this question so let's do age and we see that we can
dynamically change that prompt.
So we have got what is your age.
So I'll just see an age in there and now we see that my name has the value of 40 and noticed that it's
a string value as well.
So I want you to try this out for yourself and combine what we learned earlier.
And the challenge here is going to be to ask a question pick up their response for the question so ask
a question ask the person's name coming to your Web site and then build a welcome message an alert welcome
message responding back to the user as they enter in their name coming into your web page.
So Plus the video.
And on another site I'm going to show you what the solution to that is and think back to the different
methods that we've used within the earlier lessons where we used to alert and use that in combination
with the variables and the prompt.
And you should be able to come up with the solution in order to create that welcome message to users
to your Web site
so I hope you had the opportunity to try this for yourself.
And now I'm going to show you the solution.
So most of the work is already done here where we're trying out all the different variations of the
question and so on.
So basically what I wanted to do is just keep it as what is your name and I'm going to use comments
here comment this out and I can change this one to a question.
So what is your name.
It's going to prompt a question and then lastly we need to add in that alert method.
So let's put on alert and here we need to combine a string with the my name response.
So welcome to my Web site.
And then let's let's
let's hide in the name there that we picked up from the response so basically let's do a quick run through
here.
So we are creating a string value that's asking for the name.
We're utilizing that variable within the prompt where we're asking we're setting another variable with
the response back from the prompt.
And then lastly we're using alert we're concatenating one the string value here which is a message and
then we're concatenating it to the response that we get back from the prompt.
So let's try this out and see how this works.
So what is your name and let's type in a name here and then we see it.
Welcome to my Web site Lawrence.
So there you go.
So I hope that you got an opportunity to try that out.
And I do encourage you to try out different different variations combining variables as well as the
prompt and alert and see what types of different functionality you can create coming into your web site
creating some interaction between your web user and your script.
So coming up we're going to look at even more we can do with javascript.